I’ve now tried BTRFS twice and have gone back to ext4 again. The first time was to pool the drives while external, and that caused some stability issues (found later that a BTRFS pool with USB drives is a known bad idea.) I also didn’t really click with snapshots, so it seemed pointless. 

I tried a second time after moving back to Linux and needing to convert NTFS drives. BTRFS keeps coming up with recent distro updates so I decided to give it another go. Setting up the pool was rather easy. To take advantage of the raid functionality, I converted to RAID10 striped mirroring. It was more stable, but subvolumes caused an issue - I couldn’t move files cross subvolumes over SMB, which is my preferred method for cleanup. it was causing files to look like folders, and sometimes directories wouldn’t appear under SMB but still exist on the file store. I was using Pop!_os 20.04 at the time and tried Manjaro for samba 4.12, same issue (version shipping with 20.04 has related issues with samba). in addition, getting BTRFS to work on the system drive took more work than it was worth, and eventually gave me problems running the initial OS update (it would fail where it worked initially). I’m all for tinkering and troubleshooting but this gave me less faith in data integrity and felt I was spending too much time spinning my wheels trying to fix. Might be alright to revisit in the future but not for now - moving back to ext4 with mergerfs and snapraid (and staying with Manjaro, too!)

As I am writing this, I am removing a 8TB drive from a 4x8TB RAID0 pool with 5TB data and on day 2 of possible 3 rebalancing. Rebalancing takes foooooooooorever.

DO NOT DELETE NOTES!
